[03:53:13] CALLER: estate agents New York NY dot com and I've also added in contact for emily dot smith at blue real estate agents dot com and then as well I've added in this phone number here as well so we're going to be trying to figure out how to best pronounce this but before we get started I'm just going to give it a quick call and ask for the opening
[03:53:29] YOU: Interesting. So is it working?
[03:53:35] CALLER: hours and just see how it sounds. Hey, I was wondering what your opening hours were. Hey there! Yeah, so we're open from 7:35 AM to 5:45 PM. If you need anything during those hours, just let me know. So there you have our first test, it sounded pretty good. There was really nothing wrong with that.
[03:53:40] CALLER: - it was pretty clear in saying what it said. We can test it once again just to see how it sounds. Hey, what were your opening hours?
- Oh hey, yeah, we're open from 7:35 in the morning to 5:45 in the evening. Anything I can help you with?
- So once again, it's really smooth, it actually works.
[03:54:02] YOU: Oh, okay, so it is working. YouTube is playing on the background. My microphone is being recorded right now.
[03:54:11] CALLER: does quite well out the gate as you add it into here directly in the prompt so Retell has done some back-end prompting to make this sound better for it to to understand this previously sometimes when you added in this it wasn't as smooth as that it would read it out as you know 735 or it would just say
[03:54:25] YOU: Thank you.
[03:54:36] CALLER: AM as AM and and really don't do it quite properly so they've done some work to to make it better although we can still improve this we can make this slightly better and the main thing that we can improve is the speed in which it reads out the time so these numbers given that the output of this prompt is actually outputting direct numbers
[03:54:44] CALLER: So what that means is when this gets sent to Eleven Labs, an AI is obviously generating this, ChatGPT or GPT-4o is is generating this text, then these numbers get sent to Eleven Labs, then the Eleven Labs system uses its voice processing and speech model to use the numbers as its output, but compared to this,
[03:54:50] CALLER: What we can do is essentially have these numbers output as text, so instead of 7 the number, we can use seven the word. And that just allows us to slow this conversation down, and we're going to use this technique and tactic for some of our other areas here as well in the prompt, but we're going to try it out and see if it improves us. So the first...
[03:55:04] YOU: I wonder if 30 seconds is better.
[03:55:10] CALLER: The first thing that I'm going to do is head over to Retell AI's documentation. In their documentation, they've actually got a few prompt engineering tips. So I definitely recommend hopping in here, having a look at some of their tips, and just reading through some of the ways in which they're obviously prompting their systems, and this is essentially what it's built on, so...
[03:55:15] CALLER: Definitely recommend it, but for the most part, they’ve got a pronounce the time correctly section in here as well. I’m just going to use this, we’re going to copy paste it, and we’re going to see if it makes any improvements. So copy it line by line, and I can just go through exactly what’s sort of going on here, so you get some context as to how this even works in the first place.
[03:55:25] CALLER: So, out of the gate, it's got state numbers, times and dates slowly. So, just setting the stage here of exactly what we're going to be using this for. So setting numbers, times and dates slowly. Then it's going to have some examples. This is really critical when you're prompting, you want to have examples. Always want to be using examples to back up.