There are few filmmakers more influential than Akira Kurasawa. His films like Seven Samurai and Rashimon are widely considered blueprints for entire genres. And yet there is one Kurasawa film that has received far less recognition than his period epics while arguably having just as much influence. This is your favorite filmmaker's favorite movie, High and Low. Sometimes when you're a film nerd and you've gone to Cinemaex and bought DVDs and Blu-rays and VHS's for a long time in your life, you think, "Oh, I've seen it all." But High and Low by Corsava to me is like the perfect entertainment film. One of the great films ever made by one of the great filmmakers ever made, Akira Kasawa, a Japanese filmmaker. Made in 1963, High and Low stands out in Kurasawa's UA. The movie is a modernist crime thriller looking at a rapidly changing Japan through the lens of a brutal kidnapping. Over the course of little more than two hours, High and Low created a new high watermark for crime procedurals, revolutionizing the genre as much as Seven Samurai did for the action epic. The film's power begins with its inimitable screenplay written by Korasawa, Hideo UNI, Ajiro Hiasita, and Ruzo Kikushima. Also adapted from the 1959 book King's Ransom by Evan Hunter, the film follows a wealthy businessman whose chauffeur's son is mistakenly kidnapped instead of his own, forcing him to decide whether or not to pay an astronomical ransom. Kurosaba wasn't a big fan of the novel, but he found himself fascinated with the idea of kidnapping and what would push someone to commit such a crime. As such, the screenplay examines the larger social and economic trends in Japan in the 1960s as a motive for the kidnapper, turning the pulpy plot into a more profound commentary on class hierarchy. Bong Jun Ho explains, "The Japanese title is heaven and hell. On the top of the hill is a rich guy and in the bottom there is the criminal kind of structure. It's basically the same in Parasite but with more layers. The class commentary makes the film's villain much more complex than most crime movie antagonists before it. Director Tekashi Mik describes what makes this approach so captivating. The kidnapper is human and therefore makes mistakes and commits some crimes. Instead of demonizing him, Kurasawa ends up saying that the man was just trying to live and we don't know the reason why he did this and that's it. The film's title and themes of duality also inform its unique structure. The story is essentially cut into two halves. The first half taking place almost entirely in Gondo's apartment and the second half following the manhunt for the kidnapper. Critic Steven Prince notes, "Although the characters of the film remain oblivious to the social and economic divisions in Japanese society that have set Gondo and the kidnapper in opposition, the structure of the film visualizes these very divisions. The bifurcated narrative formalizes them. This distinct structure continues to feel singular to this day, but its plot mechanisms and deliberately anticlimatic ending have influenced many iconic procedurals. Forget it, Jake. It's Chinat Town, such as Bong Jun Ho's Memories of Murder or David Fincher's Zodiac. High and low cinematography, too, is the stuff of legend. Takao Sito, a co- cinematographer on the film, explained the ethos for the look of the film. Mr. Kurasawa and I both dislike special camera techniques. Fundamentally, the camera is not a player. It is there to record all that ought to be recorded and nothing more. This cinematography philosophy has influenced a long line of thriller filmmakers. Take for example David Fincher's description of the camera movement in Panic Room. It's so personalityfree. I think there's something about that that's Terminator. Like there's no one there. There's no one pushing a dolly. There's no one pulling focus. But while the film's Tohoscope widescreen cinematography is designed to go unnoticed, it is also visually striking. Director Chris Vites argues at the height of his abilities, Kurissawa used every tool at his disposal to tell a story. So his average film is not only gripping and psychologically intense, but also beautifully shot. The film's look both borrows from the noir films of the 40s and 50s while also offering something more modern, creating a template that neon- noir would use for years to come. It feels modern, but there's a last section of it when it goes into the low of uh the city with the drug addicts and this sort of thing, you really feel you're going into a kind of Bosch painting in a way. The look of the film's iconic final scene has had an especially long shadow. James Chinland, production designer for The Batman, explains how the sequence inspired him and director Matt Reeves. That was very inspiring to Matt where there's sort of a reveal. The screen goes up and they're in this interrogation room. So, I think we were really looking at different ways of revealing the characters. We knew that we wanted the Joker, for example, to be there but not there. And sort of layers of glass and mesh and shadow and light like how could we reveal the characters in different ways and still maintain mystery. Kurasawa takes full advantage of the widescreen aspect ratio to execute intricate compositions and masterful blocking. Kurissava's ability to maintain dynamic blocking, even in drawn out scenes that take place in one contained space, continues to be studied by directors today. Chris Whites elaborates, "The stakes in the movie are very complicated, and the first hour or so is spent in one room. It feels like a play, but you never have a sense of stagnancy. It's just incredibly tense." Kurissabov was a master at staging multiple actors at once, which is what he's doing in the first hour of High and Low. In contrast to the obviously impressive blocking of the battles in his period epics, Kurasaba's staging is much more subtle in high and low, but it's a feat in its own right. It took me a little while to figure it out, but every movement of the characters, Methune and all the people around him were all designed. Everything was blocked in very precise form, so you get a very modern impression as you're watching the picture in that wide screen, black and white. It is safe to say that Kurissava's impact on the film industry is nearly second to none. and High and Low shows us a filmmaker at the top of his craft pushing himself into new territory. That is something we can all learn from. Are you also inspired by High and Low? Get started on your own movie with Studio Binder's pre-production services, including everything from scheduling to storyboarding software. Goodbye for now. We hope you find what you're searching for.