 How did we end up here? Emmanuel Lubeski is one of the most celebrated cinematographers of the 21st century. Emanuel Chbo. Emanuel Leeski and is behind countless jaw-droppingly beautiful shots. What makes Lubeski cinematography so instantly impactful? What are the elements that go into his signature look? This is the cinematography style of Emanuel Lubeski. Before we're aed by natural beauty, subscribe to Studio Binder and enable notifications to stay uptodate on all our videos. Now, prepare your handheld rig. Emmanuel Lubesi, commonly referred to as Chivbo, was born in Mexico City in 1964. He went to Universario de Studios Cinematographic, a film school where he met his future and frequent collaborator, director Alfonso Quaron. He began his career in Mexico doing TV, film, and commercials there beginning in the late 1980s. In the 90s, he made the leap into Hollywood, working on mainstream productions like Reality Bites, The Bird Cage, Meet Joe Black, and Sleepy Hollow. In the early 2000s, Lubesk's style began to become more singular, and he began to see wider recognition for his work on movies like Etum Mama, The New World, Children of Men, The Tree of Life, and The Revenant. But even though he has his own distinct look, Chibo insists that his cinematography is always in service of the individual movie he's on. Usually the the style doesn't come from me. It comes from the script, from the directors, from uh, you know, the locations where you shoot, etc. But mostly from what the directors need to tell their story. The cinematographers's job is really to help them translate their ideas into images. And that's what I try to do. With this caveat in mind, let's look at the qualities we see again and again in Lubesk's work regardless of the project. Beginning with natural light. For Leeski, everything begins with lighting. The light is almost like a fabric that is underneath the whole movie that contains everything that gives it the mood. This is like the broth that contains the soup. Earlier in his career, Chebo's lighting process was similar to many other cinematographers. He explains that if I used a lot of lights, I needed them. Like an engineer who was hired to build a bridge. If the bridge needs a lot of concrete, I need a lot of concrete. because he was working on films that were being shot on large sets, he had to rely on artificial light. But even when he was creating expansive artificial lighting setups, he had a vision for something else. As he puts it, I never wanted to use that much light. In the 2000s, Lubeski was given the creative freedom to push his lighting approach in a new direction, relying primarily on natural light. For Lubeski, the effect natural light has on an image can't be recreated artificially. When you start using natural light, it's so complex. You know, when you put somebody in front of a window, you're getting a reflection from the blue sky and the clouds and the sun bouncing. You get all these colors and different qualities of light. When you put an HMI and diffusion, you reduce that to a very narrow spectrum of color, and it feels different. Of course, natural light can vary drastically. For Lubeski, choosing what kind of natural light you want for a scene is crucial. Different times of the day express different emotions and and depending on the on the location. Some of the locations make you feel sad and some of them make you feel lonely and some of them make you joyful. Natural light also means less control which can make planning difficult. This forces Chibo to often have to improvise with what the light is giving him and to discover fleeting beauty wherever he may find it. You cannot set up the scenes. You cannot set up nature to do what it does. You have to find it. And by not having the lights around us and the equipment around us, we are able to find this these moments. The lack of control over natural light means Lubeski has to be constantly adapting to what is in front of him. On Children of Men, for example, he found himself changing the exposure on the camera in the middle of shots. He explains, "I was constantly changing the f-stop. As Clive enters the classroom, he's at f2. As we reveal the room, we're almost at f4. And as he walks in toward the window, we go to f11. When we go to her, it's f5.6. For lees, the difficulties of working with natural light are worth its inimitable quality and the happy accidents it can create. He explains the effect of using natural light for a car scene. Sunlight coming through a canopy of trees, hitting the actors, and bouncing around in the car is an effect that comes as suddenly as it disappears. I love that all these variations happen naturally. It would take you hours to recreate that with lighting. Of course, not every scene can rely solely on natural light, but Chebo maintains a similar ethos when approaching artificial lighting, typically relying on practicals or trying to replicate sources of natural light like windows. And Lubesk's approach to lighting works handin hand with his complex mobile camera work. Lubeski's camera is almost always on the move, either fully handheld or on a steady cam. This movement gives Chibo cinematography an improvisatory almost docule feel. And sometimes this is in fact the case. Lubeski has collaborated several times with Terrence Malik, a director who likes to give his actors freedom to do whatever their character feels like doing in the moment. This means Lubeski has to improvise as well, following actors and finding frames on the fly, which would be nearly impossible if he was locked off on a tripod or dolly. It may be freeing, but this approach is far from easy, and it means that Lubes has to ensure his camera team is at the top of their game, especially his focus puller. The camera is handheld or static and moving. We don't have marks. Mhm. And when you start approaching a character, when you are closer than one foot, Mhm. the chances of having that scene in focus are very small. And when you are only 2 in, you you need to work with a bat. You know, somebody that has an inner focus machine in the brain. But Lubesk's camera work isn't always so run and gun, even if it may seem like it. On many films, his camera movement is rooted in lots of rehearsals and planning. This was the case on The Revenant. There were a couple of methodologies we used to to shoot the film. And one was extensive rehearsal time. And I think we probably rehears it a month or more than a month. And during those rehearsals is when we find the language of the film and the blocking and and and during those rehearsals, we learn also what kind of gear we want to use. Planned or unplanned, Lubeski typically uses a moving camera to change the perspectives within a single shot, which he argues is made possible also by using wider lenses. Let's use these wide lenses to be able to shift the point of views to go from a subjective shot to an objective and then to the subjective of another character. And I think that way you you get immersed because his camera is always shifting point of views. Leeski is able to merge what would typically be several shots into one, which has made him the master of the wer. But for Lubesi, a long take should feel earned, not showing. We don't do it because you haven't seen it another movie. We do it because we feel is the right uh language for that specific scene. And then the problem is that you don't want the audience to notice. Chibo hides his waters through movement and the shifting of perspectives. He explains his approach to long takes on children of men. We decided to have every shot be a shot in itself and avoid the abab of coverage. The more I work this way, the more I realize that conventional coverage is what makes most movies feel the same. Many films just cover the dialogue without really exploring the visual dimension. Lubesk's approach to camera movement and natural lighting deeply influences his equipment choices. For much of his career, Chivbo, like many other cinematographers, was skeptical of digital cameras. This remained the case even after he shot on digital for some of Michael Mann's Ali. He explains, "Cameras were lowresolution, fourband images with all sorts of video issues, but Michael saw something in digital that he could not get on film, and he wanted to be able to express that." And he maintains that I think Michael jumped too early. But as digital technology progressed, Chibo became one of its highest profile advocates. For Chebo, choosing the right camera is about experimenting and pushing boundaries. On the Revenant, he went a step further utilizing an Alexa M, which splits the center of the camera from its recording device. He explains that you love it because it's lighter and allows you to get to places that the other cameras don't. For Lubeski, digital cameras perfectly suit his mobile style. He explains his equipment choices on Birdman. We used mostly the Alexa M for handheld or when these scenes were very very long. The beautiful thing about the camera is that it is very small. It can get between two actors who are very close. It allows you to get in tiny spaces and situations between actors where you feel like you're in the center of a hurricane or in the center of the action. This is my chance to finally do some work that actually means something. It means something to who? You had a career, Dad, before the third comic book movie. Before people started to forget who was inside that bird costume. Shooting digital makes long shots easier in ways beyond weight. Chbo notes that on Birdman, the fact that you can record media for so many minutes and also that the video system gets an image that is so clear for the director, it allowed us to do the movie. Otherwise, I think it would have been probably close to impossible. Digital is also ideal for shooting in natural light. The cinematographer explains his experience on the Revenant. We had already sent film back to Hollywood because uh film was just not getting what what we what we were trying to do. It's not sensitive enough and it was getting rainy and we were shooting very very late. There's a lot of of shots in the movie that are past dusk, you know, very late. So, the digital cameras were able to give us a beautiful uh very clean, immersive uh image. On the Revenant, this meant using the Alexa 65, which had not technically hit markets yet. In Knight of Cups, he and Malik occasionally used consumer grade cameras. "We are fearless in our techniques," Tibo explains. We don't care about mixing all these different technologies. So, we can use GoPros and allow the actors to operate a lot of scenes. For all of his distinctive flourishes, Lubesi at his core is a visual storyteller whose decisions are based on the specific film he's working on. And in the end, isn't that the job of every great cinematographer? Start planning your own shots with StudioBinder pre-production services, which includes storyboarding and shot listing softwares. Goodbye for now. Remember, beauties everywhere. You just need to look. Hello. Surf up. Yeah.