 There are few, if any, movements in film history as widely influential and disruptive as the French New Wave. Somehow, it is no exaggeration to say a small handful of magazine writers changed the way the world viewed and made movies. Whatever books that said this is how it had to be done, they burned them. Lights, camera, action. This is what is the French New Wave. Before we enter 1950s Paris, be sure to subscribe to Studio Binder and click the bell to stay up to date on all our videos. Now commenser. The French new wave or no vogue is a cinematic movement which rose to prominence in the 1950s in Paris with its height largely considered to be from 1959 to 1963. While there is no one French new wave style, it is most typically characterized by its groundbreaking filmmaking techniques that marked a stark turnaway from the classical film making that defined the 30s and 40s in both the US and Europe. French new wave director Francois Trufo argued, "The new wave is neither a movement nor a school nor a group. It's equality." Film historian James Monaco meanwhile describes the new wave as simply a new youthful spirit then making itself felt in French film. The French new wave primarily arose out of the film criticism magazine Cayu cinema which took a radical approach to analyzing cinema and famously embraced the idea of orurism. Many new wave or began as writers for the publication including Trufo, Jeanlu Godar, Eric Romere, Claude Shabol and Shak Rivet. Some critics as well as Godar himself consider the new wave to only consist of these five men. New wave filmmakers were heavily influenced by Italian neo realalism which prioritize unglamorous stories told in a docu style and classical Hollywood cinema where the cay cinema writers saw filmmakers like Alfred Hitchcock and Howard Hawks as a themselves. These two seemingly contradictory influences resulted in a radical new style that would speak to a younger generation of filmgoers who by the 1960s were looking for entertainment outside of the mainstream. We'll look at why this movement was so resonant as well as its other iterations on the left bank. But first, let's look at their groundbreaking film making techniques. The French new wave was first and foremost a rebuke of the French studio system or what was called the tradition of quality which the kayed cinema group saw as repetitive and stifling. And so new wave films largely have two common through lines. An experimental and inventive approach and a relatively low budget since they were producing projects mostly outside of the studios. The experimentation on a budget would often take the form of cinema verite, a concurrent movement in the documentary genre comprising fly-on-the-wall sequences captured with handheld mobile cameras. This handheld camera work created a improvisatory feel that infused an anarchic energy into the film and it was made possible by the introduction of smaller, more mobile cameras that were developed during World War II. Monica writes, "The phenomenon of the new wave would still not have been possible were it not for the concurrent revolution of the technology of film. Fast film stocks, lightweight cameras, new lighting equipment, and the liberation from the Hollywood set that all this implied made the camera stylo a reality. In this verite vein, new way filmmakers would often utilize natural lighting, which further removed them from the artifice of studio films. It also allowed them to be more mobile, swinging the camera wherever the action took them without having to worry about catching a light. The new wave filmmakers would also typically prioritize real locations rather than build sets. This, of course, was a budget consideration, but also was in line with their goal to more realistically depict the world around them. The experimentation on set carried over into the cutting room. New wave filmmakers largely assued the invisible editing approach of studio films and instead opted for jarring cuts that often call attention to themselves. One of the most famous innovations to come out of the new wave was the jump cut, which Godard brought to popularity in Breathless. This too came from budget limitations. Godard received the note to increase the pacing of scenes that were only covered in one long take and so he simply cut through them. Pacing is another distinctive element of French new wave films. New Wave directors would often move from scene to scene faster than studio films, adding to the energy that the roving cameras had laid the foundation for. For new wave filmmakers, nothing was off the table in the editing room. They would break the 180° rule, experiment with sound, and play with avongguard juositions. While the French New Waves filmmaking techniques have proved to be enormously influential, their staying power is also rooted in their distinct approach to narrative. Trufo once said of new wave filmmakers, "In comparison with American directors, I think we are all intellectuals." Most French new wave films can be characterized by their heady and existential narratives and themes. New way filmmakers were disinterested in spoon feeding their audience and created films which instead challenged and often confounded viewers. Agnes Vard explains in my films I always wanted to make people see deeply. I don't want to show things, but to give people the desire to see. This often meant deliberately departing from a conventional story arc with a tidy beginning, middle, and end. New wave narratives are often meandering and unpredictable, creating an almost stream of consciousness feeling where threads are abandoned and tangents are indulged. Eric Rome's la collection, for example, has no conventional narrative thrust, simply following a group of characters on vacation. This lack of urgency builds on themes of ani and aimlessness that are so common in new wave films. These structures are perfect for character studies. These characters are typically not traditional heroes and don't always make the right decisions. In real life, human beings don't typically move in a straight line. And so, new wave narratives often follow whatever whim their protagonist feels. This approach allowed for the creation of complex and realistic characters. Often these protagonists were women whose freespirited nature would come up against the rigid societal expectations imposed upon them. Cleo from 5 to 7 follows its protagonist for a single day as she waits for test results. There is no singular conflict allowing interactions to happen seemingly naturally and letting us see multiple different sides of Cleo. New wave themes too were groundbreaking for their time. These films are often steeped in existentialism, depicting characters who are searching for larger meaning and often failing to find it. This detachment lent itself to heavily ironic tones where the absurdity of the dayto-day is portrayed in high relief. you. This irony would often come through parodyied or subverted references to other films. Cay de cinema writers were film fans first and so they would often quote other genres like noir for their own ends. The umbrellas of Shaborg, for example, uses the colorful trappings of big Hollywood musical productions, but contrasts it with darker subject matter. Hello. This lets director shock dei emphasize the damage the Algerian war has wrought. Some new wave directors would take this modernist approach even further using metatextual techniques like having characters address the camera. or even discuss their own roles within the story. This self-reflectivity would allow filmmakers to comment on the art of film making itself as well as in Godard's case especially make radical political statements. US go home. US go home. US go home. Go home. For all its binding factors, it should be noted that the French New Wave was far from a homogeneous crusade. The Cayinar group was only one half of the movement. There was also the left bank. On the other side of the river, Sain in Paris, another burgeoning filmmaking collective was pushing the language of cinema forward. The left bank consisted of filmmakers like Agnes Vada, Chris Mara, Alo Renee and Jacqu Dei and had enough modernist similarities with the cay to cinema approach to also be considered part of the French new wave. But there were nearly as many differences between the two factions and God stated that the left bank should be considered its own movement. Film historians Christine Thompson and David Bardwell write that the leftbank filmmakers were largely older and less movie mad than the caylee crew. They tended to see cinema as akin to other arts. The left bank members for the most part had backgrounds in other art forms. Agnes Vada for example worked as a photographer before she turned to film while Chris Marker was a journalist and writer. These backgrounds and viewpoints often made left bank films feel much more literary and occasionally even veering into film essays. Filmmaker Clare Kuzo noted, "The filmmakers of the left bank are inspired by artistic eclecticism. As creators, they are interested in the flow of mental processes rather than synophilic fanaticism. It is not theoretical criticism which draws them to the cinema, but an interest in filmic writing and the relations this might have with literary production. The left bank were also seen as much more overtly political, commenting directly on issues such as war, racism, and the patriarchy. As a result, left bank cinema often was even more dense and avongguard than the French New Wave's other half and therefore typically had less commercial success. But to this day, both factions of the French New Wave continue to have a massive impact. It is perhaps an understatement to say that the French new wave prompted a sea change in film making everywhere. Martin Scorsesei notes, "The new wave has influenced all filmmakers who have worked since, whether they saw the films or not. It submerged cinema like a title wave. The Neuvo Vogue filmmakers and their films paved a new path for cinema, encouraging experimentation in form and profoundity in themes. Filmmaker Mike Lee described seeing Breathless for the first time in theaters. free-spirited location filming, spontaneous, believable acting, weward, unconnected, quirky moments. Here was a feast of revelatory challenges to one's ideas about cinema. Pure anarchic bliss. In the 1970s, the new wave was embraced by Hollywood's new generation and could be seen in the works of Francis Ford Copela, Martin Scorsesi and John Cavvetes who used the new waves filmmaking techniques and philosophy as well as in Bonnie and Clyde which effectively started the new Hollywood movement. In the 70s and into the 80s, black filmmakers like Charles Bernett expanded upon new wave practices to create an underground cinema movement now called the LA Rebellion. In the 1990s, the French New Waves stripped back aesthetics were pushed further by Lars Vontria and Thomas Vintterberg with the founding of their Dogma 95 movement and the genre homage of Godard in particular were picked up by Quentyn Daredino. Guitar was so influential to me at the beginning of my aesthetic as a director. His kind of like lack of complete any type of film style just just wanting to make movies for love of it. Guitar is the one who taught me the fun and the freedom and the joy of of breaking rules, you know, and just playing around with the entire medium. In the 2000s, the ironic and improvisatory nature of the French New Wave helped inspire mumblecore filmmakers. The influence of the French New Wave today can be seen in the biggest blockbuster to the smallest indie. And yet, remarkably, the films of the movement remain as fresh as ever. The French New Wave is a testament to doing a lot with a little. Get started on your own movie with Studio Binder softwares for screenwriting, storyboarding, shot listing, and much more. Oravoir, don't be afraid to experiment. blow.