What makes this scene so perfectly capture melancholic longing? Is it the pondering voice over, the evocative score, or maybe it's the deep blue that permeates each shot? or the chainlink fence in the foreground of the framing that cages the character. This is the power of Wong Car  Y. It's why since the 1990s, directors everywhere have been trying to emulate the Wong Car Y movie  and the indescribable feeling they evoke. &gt;&gt; Let's cook with Wong Car Y. Wong car was born on July 17th, 1958 in Shanghai. He studied graphic design at Hong Kong Polytenic and eventually worked his way into the film industry  in that city. First as a screenwriter and then as a writer director. His directorial debut was the 1988 crime film Assy which is now seen as his most conventional film and was a modest success. After that film, his work turned more personal and enigmatic,  starting with 1990s days of being wild. His output for the next 10 years would become the stuff of legend and cast a long shadow over indie film making worldwide. The moods he creates don't come from one single technique. They are culminations of a unified vision and approach that Wong applies to each step of the film making process. One that is improvisational, elliptical, and prioritizes feeling over logic. This approach begins on the page. Arguably the most distinct element of W car is  his writing philosophy. He often heads into production with little more than an idea. Sometimes it's multiple ideas. He explains his approach to chunking  express. As a writer, I always have some short stories in my mind  which have not yet developed into a script and I just picked out three and said, "Okay, let's start shooting."  This results in a script that lacks a conventional three-act structure or even a discernable plot. Instead, character takes  the focus and drives the momentum from scene to scene. &gt;&gt; For me, it's  always come from the characters first because stories is more or less the same. By examining characters as people rather than plot vehicles,  Wong allows himself to focus on the minutia of everyday life, the feeling of a passing moment, the atmosphere of a bar, the taste of food. A major element of his writing that informs his film's moods are his thematic concerns. &gt;&gt;  &gt;&gt; Themes of memory, the passage of time, and lost love recur again and again and are infused in every frame of his films. &gt;&gt; There were lots of references to time in my films, maybe because I'm consciously  aware of it and how slowly I was making my film. These themes work together to create a sense of longing in his characters and in turn his stories. &gt;&gt; Nearly all my characters find themselves in solitude and they are nearly always searching for something that would keep themselves from being lonely. Equally important to these themes is how they are presented.  Wand largely works within subtext, showing feelings, wants, and changes rather than telling. He explains,  "We're not making a movie about what's said. We're making one about what's hidden." So, how does he show these intangible ideas like memory and loneliness? through stunning cinematography. Wong Carwise's impressionistic approach to writing is carried through to his visuals. His most frequent collaborator is Christopher Doyle, an Australian cinematographer who is most closely associated with the look Wong  is known for. Doyle composed visuals much like how Wong put together his stories. Wong explains, "Chris was like jazz, improvised, explosive." Doyle's power lies in embracing the  environments in which he shoots, which are often real locations where he has very little control. Many times, this means using available light,  leaning into the orange lamplight of In the Mood for Love or the green neons of Hong Kong streets in Chongqing Express. Doyle and Wong's visuals are typically very saturated, allowing them to use color to underscore an atmosphere or feeling. In the Mood for Love utilizes  deep reds and ambers to represent desire, while the queasy teals in Fallen Angels emphasize characters alienation. Camera movement  and framing too helps establish mood. The handheld camera work in Happy Together mirrors the turbulent and lustful relationship between lie and hoe, while the roving camera in Chunking Express highlights the mayhem of city life. Lack of movement is equally telling in In the Mood for Love, the locked off camera mirrors  the emotional suppression both characters are enduring. Throughout the film, the framing also separates the two characters, externalizing the forbidden nature of the romance burgeoning between them. Wong and Doyle will often use frames within frames to illustrate a character's isolation, whether it be with a hallway, a doorway, or a window. Where the camera focuses helps build on some textual emotions and themes. Wong explains, "Hands betray what faces hide. A touch, a hesitation, the cigarette,  the letter, the hem of a dress. Desire lives in those details, and hands don't lie like faces do." Of course, one of Wong's most recognizable flourishes  is step printing. It's stylized and attentiongrabbing, but it too is in service of mood building.  This technique gives footage a ghostly out of time quality, visualizing the feel of a half-for-gotten memory. This mood is then carried into the editing room. In post-prouction, Wankar Y often strives to create the feeling of watching a memory. To him this means repetition. He explains repetition is how memory works. The same song, the same stairs. Each time the meaning changes. It's not nostalgia, it's haunting. Recurring images and songs build on themselves to create an almost hypnotic feeling and a distinct rhythm. One of the keys in film making is in finding the rhythm of the film. A filmmaker is like a conductor. You have to tune all the instruments to one tone. Wong's editing is also the source of much of the energy in his sequences. He has said that his cutting is inspired by early MTV  music videos explaining in the late 80s when it was first shown in Hong Kong. We were all really  impressed with the energy in the fragmented structure. It seemed like we should go in this direction. But this doesn't simply mean fast cutting. Often Wong will alternate between language, slow motion, and frenetic sequences. Maintaining a dynamism that matches the urban settings he so frequently films in. Music is crucial  to the mood of a W car film. He claims that music always leads the way for me. His ponchon for repetition is the most present in his song choices as he often uses a single song several times throughout a movie bridging scenes together with a common sonic pallet. He explains his selection of the two most prominent songs in in the mood for love. Chageru umabayashi's theme came to me early  in the process. That plucked string motif felt like a heartbeat, something primal  and essential. The napkin coal songs brought this layer of exoticism of longing for somewhere else.  &gt;&gt; Together they created this emotional landscape that the film could inhabit. War's work and the distinct moods he creates are a testament  to his unwavering vision. How he approaches his writing informs how he approaches his visuals which informs how he approaches his edit. These ingredients taken together create a singular wave of atmosphere and tone that  audiences get lost in again and again. Have your vision? Plan your next film with Studio  Binder's pre-production software where you can storyboard, shot list, and much more all in one place. That's all for now. Until next time, don't take any passing moment for  granted.