 How do these movies make you feel? Is it the tone, the mood, or the atmosphere? These terms are often used interchangeably. And while they are closely related, they're actually different.  Today, we will unlock the potential in these aspects that move us every time the curtain opens and the lights go down. Put out the vibe. &gt;&gt;  &gt;&gt; This is what is tone versus mood versus atmosphere. If you're in the mood for more content on film making, hit subscribe and ring the bell. Now, cue the atmosphere. When we describe those intangible ways movies make us feel, we often use terms like tone, mood, and atmosphere. In everyday conversation, these three terms can mean the same thing. Usually, it's a quality of the film that triggers a reaction in the audience. But they're not exactly  synonyms. In fact, it might be more useful to consider them as three steps in the  film making process. Tone is established during the writing, but continues during production and post-production. Atmosphere can also be present in the script, but it is executed during  the shooting and into post. And mood is what the audience experiences watching  the finished product. Think of it as a simple math equation. Tone plus atmosphere equals mood. To make sure these elements all add up in the finished film, directors will often start with a mood board. Here they can gather images that guide the atmosphere and include text to shape the tone. If you've seen Sophia Coppa's The Beguiled, you know it has a very specific and effective atmosphere and tone. And we can see where those qualities originated in her mood board. Despite their differences, all three elements work together like different  instruments in the same band. Let's look at each one a little closer. Starting with tone. This is the writer and director's attitude toward the subject matter. How do they feel about these particular characters or  stories? Are they optimistic or pessimistic? Are they sincere or satirical? Tone is often generated by the subject matter, but films with similar stories can have different tones. All three of these films deal with the end of the world caused by an interstellar collision. But while the basic plots are similar, the tones are wildly different. Melancholia has an existential tone. &gt;&gt; The earth  is evil. We don't need to grieve for it. &gt;&gt; Armageddon has an optimistic tone. &gt;&gt; United States government just asked us to save the world. Anybody want  to say no? And don't look up has a satirical tone. &gt;&gt; When the other metals are factored in, the comet  actually contains almost $140 trillion worth of assets. &gt;&gt; Buck 40 trillion. &gt;&gt; Tone can be altered in different versions or mediums. The original Casino Royale leaned more into comedy. &gt;&gt; These are my credentials. &gt;&gt; They appear to be in order. While Daniel Craig's 007  debut is more dramatic. &gt;&gt; I suppose you've given some thought to the notion that if you lose, our government will have directly financed terrorism. &gt;&gt; Jojo Rabbit is based on a novel by Christine Leonins, but changes the tone quite significantly from a more serious drama to a more comedic satire. &gt;&gt; Got it. I will negotiate out the house and blame Winston Churchill &gt;&gt; or negotiate. &gt;&gt; In film, tone starts at the script level expressed through the dialogue, characters, and action/descriptions. The opening sequence in the killer contains all three. &gt;&gt; It all comes down to preparation, attention to detail, redundancies, redundancies, and redundancies. But tone is also expressed in other creative choices like music, costume or production design. These are elements added during production and post-production and handled by different departments. One of the main tasks of the director is to maintain a consistent tone. George Miller does a fantastic job orchestrating and sustaining the stylized and aggressive tone throughout Fury Road. But consistency isn't always necessary. Films that switch through different tones are equally impressive. Tone is also closely tied to genre. For example, certain genres are partially defined by their tone.  Dark comedies often contain an irreverent tone, while film noirs are known for their pessimistic tone. But even within the same genre, different tones can exist. There are straight horror films, but there are also horror comedy hybrids that switch between tones. &gt;&gt; Purple Rain  Ho, Son of the Time. &gt;&gt; Definitely not the Batman soundtrack. Plot lays the foundation for a story's tone. &gt;&gt; Tone is also expressed through dialogue. &gt;&gt; You yell shark. We've got a panic on our hands on the 4th of July. &gt;&gt; The opening monologue of Michael Clayton establishes the  tone of a tense thriller. &gt;&gt; As potent a feeling as this is, as true a thing as I believe that I have witnessed today, it must wait. It must stand the test of time. And Michael, the  time is now. &gt;&gt; Whereas the opening monologue of Annie Hall signals a quirky comedic tone. Um, I would never want to belong to any club that would have someone like me for remember. That's the key joke of my adult life in terms of my relationships with women. &gt;&gt; Of course, in bringing that dialogue to the screen, performance is another way to manage tone. &gt;&gt; Come on, Lucille. Don't die on me now. &gt;&gt; Don't you die on me again. &gt;&gt; Don't you dare me now. &gt;&gt; DON'T YOU DARE DIE ON ME. THE same line but each with a different tone. Tone starts with the writing and then the director makes additional choices in the presentation to support and maintain that tone. In a previous video, we looked at how Quentyn Tarantino controls the tone of violence with sound design. Tone can either be consistent &gt;&gt; or inconsistent. Excuse me. &gt;&gt; I SAID WE CUT OFF YOUR J. &gt;&gt; In La La Land, the music sequences are tonally consistent with the rest of the film, but Dancer in the Dark uses its musical sequences as a tragic counterpoint to Selma's somber story. Clutter, crush, clack, crack, sound, rattle, clone, crack, suck, whack, bang. 10 Cloverfield Lane shifts tone from  scene to scene, forcing the audience to constantly second guessess Howard's motives. One of the main ways to express tone is through atmosphere. This is the look and feel of the world of the film. It focuses more on our senses and how we perceive a certain place or situation. &gt;&gt; I got a bad feeling about this. &gt;&gt; In film, the atmosphere contains all of the choices a director makes to support  the tone established in the script. Color, texture, temperature, weather, sound, everything from costumes and sets to editing and music. For example, Tim Burton's Sleepy Hollow generates a dark  and chilling atmosphere. Some genres are more atmospheric than others. Fantasy films lend themselves to more whimsical settings. While the typical western atmosphere comprises  desert landscapes and iconic costumeuming, a haunted house is creepy. But why? The dim lighting, damp fog, and shadowy figures certainly help. Colored lights, lens flares, and an uptempo score all add to a romantic atmosphere. Seven certainly looks and sounds like a gritty thriller. These are examples of atmosphere that meet our expectations based on their genres. But atmosphere can also be used to subvert those expectations. Like when a game is designed like a children's playground, but the game is far from innocent. A single atmospheric element can alter the tone. In Civil War, after a tense, brutal killing, a music cue dramatically contradicts the atmosphere and shifts the tone, going against the tragedy and violence inherent in the scene. The music instead provides a counterpoint that makes us question how we are supposed to figure. This simple atmospheric choice complicates the tone of the scene and creates a complex mood in the audience. &gt;&gt; On the other hand, tone can likewise override the atmosphere. &gt;&gt; Damn your eyes. &gt;&gt; Too late. &gt;&gt; Nell Brooks's  Young Frankenstein is nearly identical to James Whale's original Frankenstein in terms of atmosphere. the dark castle, the torches, the costumes and makeup, but the tone is clearly different. The dialogue, music, and performances are designed to create a comedic tone. &gt;&gt; If you're blue  and you don't know where to go, why don't you go where fashion sits? When you combine the tone with the atmosphere, we get mood, the audience's intended emotional state. It's how the filmmakers want the audience to feel  in a particular moment or throughout the entire film. And it is the sum of the tone and  the atmosphere. A suspense film creates anxiety. A horror film generates fear. A comedy elicits laughter. Here's how Robert McKe defines mood. Mood is created in the film's text. The quality of light and color, tempo of action and editing, casting, style of dialogue, production design, and musical score. The sum of all these textural qualities creates a particular mood. Obviously, the plot and characters are the emotional focus in a story,  and our mood is often directly tied to their experiences. We cheer when they succeed and mourn when they  die. But the tone and atmosphere can complicate things for the audience. The many ups and downs in a film are accentuated by the atmospheric decisions like editing, color, sound, and so on. Music is a direct influencer on mood. It is often the emotional foundation of a scene in support of the characters  and situations. Of course, some moods are harder to describe, like when a film's plot, tone, and atmosphere doesn't quite line up. &gt;&gt; Done. &gt;&gt; Wa! Come back to Earth. &gt;&gt; Sorry. Sorry. Long drive.  &gt;&gt; For example, take The Humans. The plot, characters, and dialogue clearly suggest a family drama. Um, I need to have that surgery. &gt;&gt; The one I thought you could be to your 60s &gt;&gt; with the atmosphere looks and sounds like a horror film.  Good &gt;&gt; lord. &gt;&gt; Ambiguous imagery or plots can create surreal moods. A filmmaker like David Lynch often prioritizes mood and atmosphere over plot and leaves the tone a mystery. The mood intended by the filmmakers doesn't always translate to the audience. &gt;&gt; I kill you. I'll break every bone in your body. &gt;&gt; Neither tone, mood, nor atmosphere operate in a vacuum. They work simultaneously and in combination to create the overall experience. A shift in tone affects the mood. A shift in the atmosphere affects the tone. and so on. These qualities are part of every  work of art and the sooner an artist can master these elements, the sooner they can master their craft. Which film or filmmaker do you think showcases an  expert level of tone, atmosphere, and mood? Get the conversation started in the comments below. Start building your projects with Studio Binder pre-production software where you can write the script, create a story board, and assemble a mood board that captures all three elements we discussed here today. Until next time, I hope the tone of my voice and the atmosphere of this video have put you in an inspired mood. &gt;&gt; I suppose you think that was terribly clever. &gt;&gt; Come on, Gandalf. Did you see their faces?