I always felt that the film was great and I still do. I think it's a great film. At that time in the middle to late '7s, almost everything that I had done was successful and I felt that Sorcerer was the best I could possibly do. This might seem like a surprising claim by a filmmaker whose work includes The Exorcist and The French Connection. And yet, William Freen's infamous box office bomb, which went on to derail his career, continues to inspire directors to this day. What made Sorcerer so shocking and controversial? And why today is it seen by many as an undersung masterpiece? This is your favorite filmmaker's favorite film, Sorcerer. Before we assemble the team, subscribe to Studio Binder and click the bell to stay up to date on all our videos. Start your engines. Sorcerer is a 1977 film directed by William Freriedkin. For a long time, it was remembered only for its disastrous shoot and reception. Anytime a director tries to make a big movie that's difficult and that's challenging. There's always those three movies, Sorcerer, Apocalypse Now, and Gary the Wrath of God looking at you telling you, "No, you're just making a movie. Maybe you're fighting for the time to do it and do it right. Like say something like when I do Kill Bill. Nevertheless, I'm not William Frerien in Brazil or wherever the hell he was shooting in the jungle doing sorcerer. The film, a loose adaptation of the novel The Wages of Fear, follows four men tasked with transporting trucks of dynamite in Central America. &gt;&gt; We're carrying three cases each. One is enough to blow your fire. Six cases will blow out the whole field. That means you don't think all the trucks will make it. One of us is a backup. &gt;&gt; We want double illegal residence or we don't drive. &gt;&gt; You leave in 4 hours. &gt;&gt; Because Freakin insisted on shooting on location and prioritizing realism, the film's production was arduous and expensive with multiple cast and crew having to leave the film due to injury and sickness. Frieden claimed almost half the crew went into the hospital or had to be sent home. While the movie star Roy Shider noted the production made Jaws look like a picnic. The horrors of the production continued into the movie's release. On top of the negative reviews, Sorcerer had the bad luck of going up against a movie called Star Wars. That along with the movie's confounding title taken from a Miles Davis album, all but sealed the film's fate as a bomb. a dud in Freakin's legendary '7s run. Today, however, Sorcerer has been re-evaluated as an inimitable masterpiece. This is a very, very unique film. There's absolutely nothing like it, despite the fact that it's technically a remake. Indeed, one of the reasons Sorcerer was so controversial upon its release was because The Wages of Fear had already been adapted by French filmmaker Huso, and that adaptation was widely celebrated. But where Frieden's version diverges from Cluso's is what in hindsight makes it so special. The film begins with a lengthy opening act that establishes each character and their backstories, showing us the horrible things they've done and making the events that follow seemed like a form of hellish penance. For most critics at the time, this departure from the original wasn't welcomed. Film scholar Justin Chang adds that the remake also diverges aesthetically. Where Cluo had made a model of classical screw tightening suspense, Frieden sought to grind the viewer's nose in the muck to infuse the mechanics of genre with the same rough hune realism that had made the French connection so gritty persuasive. This distinctive aesthetic, which at the time was mistaken for amateurism, is now seen as an effective way to build the film's mood. &gt;&gt; It's got a wonderful tone to it and a real sense of dread and desperation. It's a very hellish film and um inside hell is a lot of anxiety. I think you're in purgatory. You're thinking about all the bad things that you've done and uh trying to run away from them. &gt;&gt; Where am I going? &gt;&gt; The gritty aesthetic is anchored by a captivated performance from Roy Shider. Stephen King once argued Roy Shider had two great roles. Chief Brody and Jaws and Jackie Scandan and Sorcerer. Shider's performance is nuanced and a showcase for why he was seen as one of New Hollywood's finest actors. &gt;&gt; I think this road's better for us because it's higher. &gt;&gt; We take this one. &gt;&gt; No, you don't understand. This this this road is too low. It goes through the swamp. There's too much mud. &gt;&gt; Can't you read a map? We have no information on that road. &gt;&gt; You full of You take that road. We follow him not. &gt;&gt; Of course, some of the realism in his performance came from the circumstances of the shoot. The actors are not pretending to be hot and dirty and without sleep. They actually are hot and dirty with and without sleep. If there is one thing Sorcerer is remembered for, however, is the deathdeying set pieces and one in particular. We're going to cross that bridge and you're going to guide me cuz I can't do it alone. The &gt;&gt; stuff with that truck &gt;&gt; on the bridge, &gt;&gt; unbelievable, &gt;&gt; is uh pretty remarkable. &gt;&gt; The bridge sequence has gone down as one of the most breathtaking action sequences in history. And considering Frein largely did it for real, one of the most dangerous. &gt;&gt; The bridge scene is just one of the great suspense moments in cinema. It's one of the great filming of sequences. The imagery itself, the editing. As Tarantino notes, the action sequences aren't just impressive because they are done practically. They are also a masterclass in building tension. Because the stakes are clear and grounded, and the shot choices are deliberate, each piece of action pulls the audience to the edge of their seat. He delivers action sequences which I would argue are possibly the best ever film. The scene is exhausting and he takes one track across the bridge and then without giving a damn for what you think, he then takes the next one across and without it ever becoming absurd and without being removed from the laws of physics and probability. It is a scene of magisterial tension and excitement. I think if anybody's ever even slightly interested in directing action on any level, you'd have to say that these scenes in in Sorcerer are right up at the very top of what's ever been achieved. &gt;&gt; The movie's tension is bolstered by a groundbreaking score from Tangerine Dream, the legendary electronic musical artist just getting their start. They were using real instruments and they started to use electronic synthesizers. There's few movies that you can listen to the soundtrack and are immediately transported to the vibe of the movie in like such an intense way and this is one of them. In the end, while Sorcerer may have been a disappointment commercially, it has aged into something that most directors would be proud to have on their resume. Today, the movie and its release have come to be seen as a turning point for Hollywood. Justin Chang writes, "The failure of Sorcerer looks like a grim prophecy of where the film industry would be headed in the years to come. It signaled that the creative ambitions of new Hollywood and its indulgence of stubborn renegade aurs had been cast aside for a new and dispiriting blockbuster ethos. But while the blockbuster continues to reign supreme, the influence of Sorcerer persists among indie filmmakers and artists who refuse to compromise their vision. Are you yourself inspired by Sorcerer? Get started on your own movie with Studio Binder's pre-production services, including everything from scheduling to storyboarding software. Until next time, don't get lost in the jungle. This is the wrong road.