What do you want? You You want the moon? Just say the word and I'll throw a lasso around it and pull it down. Hey, that's a pretty good idea. &gt;&gt; There are few films more deserving of the title Christmas classic than It's a Wonderful Life. &gt;&gt; Bless you. &gt;&gt; When Frank Capra's holiday movie came out in 1946, it received mixed reviews and was considered a box office bomb. But over time, It's a Wonderful Life has become a beloved Christmas film that plays in countless households looking for some holiday cheer. &gt;&gt; Merry Christmas, Daddy. &gt;&gt; Daddy, daddy. &gt;&gt; Kids. &gt;&gt; And yet, most people are unaware of just how chaotic making the film actually was. This is how they shot it. It's a Wonderful Life. It's a Wonderful Life was directed by legendary golden age Hollywood director Frank Capra and stars James Stewart as George Bailey. &gt;&gt; This Mr. George Bailey, &gt;&gt; a selfless man who hits hard times and is saved by a guardian angel who shows George what life would be like without him in the world. &gt;&gt; You've been given a great gift, George. A chance to see what the world would be like without you. The Guardian Angel was played by Henry Travers, a Brit who was introduced to a number of American customs on set. Famously, it was at the craft services table where he ate his first burrito. It was absolutely delicious, said Travers. Things started off smooth when filming commenced on April 15th, 1946. The movie was shot almost entirely on the RKO lot in Enino with the production building nearly an entire town for the shoot. The budget was estimated to be over $3 million which was substantial for the time. It was the first film released through Capra's own production company Liberty Films. So a lot was riding on the film success. &gt;&gt; You know George I feel that in a small way we are doing something important. The film was shot in black and white on nitrate film stock and used the Academy aspect ratio of 1.37 to1. They used Mitchell BNC cameras and captured some stunning deep focus imagery. The fake snow on set was created using water, soap, fulomite, and sugar. But fake snow was the least of the crew's concerns. On day two, craft services again served breakfast burritos. According to crew, Travers filled his plate with a whopping three breakfast Keygrip Tom Lionel remembered his paper plate was buckling under the weight of the burritos. He had hash browns, too. Capra wanted different lighting schemes for each part of the story, from the warm and nostalgic to the noirish lighting when George is at his lowest. To capture the more romantic scenes, they shot actress Donna Reed with diffused lighting. The team had more time than usual to prep the lighting because one of their actors was preoccupied with breakfast. On day three of the shoot, Travers reportedly ran to craft services and grabbed five more breakfast burritos. Well, I assumed he was getting some for the rest of the cast, recalled cinematographer Joseph Walker. I was wrong. The trouble started later in the day with Henry Travers's first scene with James Stewart. Travers continually excused himself throughout his coverage, repeating, "Big Hank's got to take a 102." Travers later began to go off book, saying lines like, "Remember, George, no man is a failure who has salsa and eggs, and the only Christmas gift I need should be wrapped in a warm tortilla." &gt;&gt; So, I didn't have a drink. &gt;&gt; James Stewart began to get frustrated, and Capra decided to let Travers leave set early. Stuart performed to a stand-in for his coverage, resulting in much of his conversation being covered in a close-up. &gt;&gt; Suppose it been better if I'd never been born at all. &gt;&gt; The next day, Capra ordered craft services to serve a different dish for breakfast, but Travers arrived on set with four burritos he'd saved from day two. Best boy Tim Platt explained, "He must have taken some when we weren't looking." Just the sight of the burritos prompted James Stewart to storm off set. He said something like, "I'll see you all in hell," recalled Capra. Without a star and a guardian angel who spent most of his time in the set portaotty, Capra and his team had an issue. The solution, the first known use of CGI. Luckily, the team had taken facial scans of Stuart and Travers, allowing the crew to recreate them digitally for the majority of their scenes. And while the black and white film stock helped disguise the excessive bean stains, computers were also needed for the wardrobe. As VFX supervisor Helen Nance explains, with CG, we were able to seamlessly remove black bean stains from Travers' costumes. &gt;&gt; I don't know whether I like it very much being seen around with an age without any wings. Oh, I've got to earn them. &gt;&gt; In the end, audiences couldn't tell the difference, even if the astronomical post-production costs caused RKO to pull funding for Orson Wells's next film, sending him on a decadesl long downward spiral where he ended up drunk on the set of a champagne commercial. &gt;&gt; Action, please. &gt;&gt; Did you do anything? &gt;&gt; No, it's sorry. &gt;&gt; Of course, CGI isn't perfect. As Capron notes, computer graphics are good and all, but they don't remove the stench of eggs and beans from your nose. &gt;&gt; See, it still smells. &gt;&gt; The film went on to get five Oscar nominations, but failed to win them. They did receive a technical Oscar for the snow process and for the advancement of digital bean stain removal. Feeling inspired? Plan your next shoot. CGI and all with StudioBinders pre-production software where you can script, storyboard, and schedule all in one place. UNTIL NEXT TIME. &gt;&gt; MERRY CHRISTMAS. MERRY CHRISTMAS. &gt;&gt; MERRY CHRISTMAS. &gt;&gt; MERRY CHRISTMAS, GEORGE. &gt;&gt; MERRY CHRISTMAS, MOVIE HOUSE. MERRY CHRISTMAS, EMPORIUM. &gt;&gt; MERRY CHRISTMAS, YOU WONDERFUL OLD BUILDING ALONE.