There's a peculiar trend being embraced by many of the top cinematographers in Hollywood, and it looks like this. How is this look achieved? Why is it so popular? And what does it all have to do with a 19th century Hungarian mathematician? Boy, if I had a nickel for every time I heard that one. This is what is a petal lens. Before we dive into distortion, subscribe to StudioBinder and enable notifications to stay uptodate on all our videos. Now, to fire up the time machine, this unique look we're focusing on is the work of a Petzval lens, named after its creator, Joseph Pzval, who invented the instrument in 1840. To understand what makes the petal lens special, you need to understand the environment in which it was made. In 1840, photography was in its infancy. One of the most popular photographic processes at the time was the dgereroype, which often used chalier lenses. The Pzval lens was a revolutionary improvement upon the chavalier lens for two reasons. First, it was exponentially faster. The average exposure time for a Chiovalier lens was 10 minutes. The PEZ valve, meanwhile, was 30 seconds. Its f-stop could go down to 3.6, capturing 22 times the amount of light its competitors could. Second, the Petzval was the first lens to be constructed based on optical laws. Joseph Pval had a unique background as a mathematics professor and used his knowledge to make the lens sharper than anything else on the market. His lens comprised two dublet lenses with an apertured stop between them. These two lenses work together to cancel out each other's optical aberrations to result in an ultrasharp center of frame which made them ideal for portraiture. It's the PEZ file's unique construction that creates its distinct look. The most recognizable characteristic of the PZ file is its extreme falloff towards the edges of the frame. A byproduct of PZAL's two lens approach which creates a drastic field curvature where the plane of focus is not flat but curved. This is in contrast to other lenses which correct this aberration using a field flattener. Initially, the pets files falloff was seen as a disadvantage, but today it's embraced. Poor things. Cinematographer Robbie Ryan explains, "Pets files are really beautiful. The edges are quite extreme and the focus is in the dead center, so you feel like you're in a vortex. And they were perfect for the portraiture work." As Ryan notes, Petile's fall-off has a distinct look, creating a swirly bouquet. The fall-off can also come in the form of vignetting, especially when shot wide open. Another pet file characteristic is that its images are typically lower contrast than most modern lenses, adding to its vintage feel. So, how do cinematographers use this centuries old lens? First, it's important to note that the pets valves most cinematographers are using are not in fact centuries old. The most popular pets file today is built by lamography, but the manufacturer has largely stayed faithful to the original design, adding a few customizations for additional control. The nomography lens, for example, allows cinematographers to choose the amount of fall-off from very subtle to very pronounced. They can also open up much more than the original pets vow down to an f1.7. Like the original pets vow, lamography lenses have a space for aperture plates and includes multiple types of plates to give your bouquet different shapes. For most pets files, it is important to shoot with a full-frame camera where the sensor size has a full field of view. With a cropped frame where the sensor is smaller and therefore has a limited field of view, the PET file's signature effect won't be as visible since the edges of the lens won't be captured. And although there are additional controls afforded by newer versions, one thing remains the same. Your subject needs to be in the center of the frame or they'll be out of focus. Because of their unique design, pet valves typically don't allow for autofocus. On larger big budget productions, lumography lenses have been rehoused to fit cinematographers specific needs. On poor things, for example, the lenses were housed in an aluminum chassis and shot at the widest apertures possible. T2.1 for the 58 mm and T2.3 for the 85 mm. Sometimes a cinematographer can create a petal look without a petal. This is a favorite approach by Jarn Blaski on the witch. Blaski used series 2 cookspeed pancros which have a similar feel to the pet file which he describes. The backgrounds when thrown out of focus have a globular look. They have a swirling effect that in combination with vignetting draws your eye to the center which works well for symmetrical compositions. It has a transcendent witchy feel to it. It's like looking through a port hole or crystal ball. on the north man. Meanwhile, Blaski used primo sphericals which were modified to have round irises and barrel distortion creating a petal-like fall-off. But whether the look is created by a pet file or not, why exactly have so many cinematographers fallen in love with it? Renewed interest in pets files come from a new problem cinematographers are wrestling with the fidelity of digital cameras. Today many cinematographers feel that the look of digital cameras is too clean resulting in an image without much character. One common solution to this issue is using retro lenses which can help make digital footage look less pristine. But why in particular has the use of the pet val proliferated? The most simple answer is that it creates beautiful shots that have a dreamlike and surreal quality. The lens captures distinct emotive looks for portraits without bringing an overwhelming or distracting level of stylization. The other answer is accessibility. A big part of the petals's resurgence has to do with lmography, which ran a Kickstarter in 2013 to recreate the lens. The campaign was a massive success and flooded the market with relatively affordable and easy to use PET files. Pet files are for making beautiful portraits, not for chasing a trend. Because when used right, there's nothing quite like them. Want to plan your own pets shot? In Studio Binder, you can customize your shot list with specific lenses. That's all for now. Until next time, stay focused.