A great director knows how to direct an audience's attention using visual and audio cues to draw a viewer's eye to what's important in every frame. Sure, you can cut to an insert shot or use a close-up, but a skilled filmmaker can direct attention without cutting. &gt;&gt; Maybe don't be scared right now. I'm gonna say it. &gt;&gt; Before we begin, let us direct your attention to the subscribe button. &gt;&gt; It's not clever. &gt;&gt; Now, let's start looking at what's important. One way a director can direct our eye is through framing.  Place a subject in the center of a frame and our eye will likely go to them. or a filmmaker can use the rule of thirds where a subject is placed at the intersection of vertical and horizontal thirds. In this shot from Zero Dark 30, our eyes naturally gravitate towards Maya since she is placed in the upper left third. It's worth noting too that the windows behind her resemble a third's grid. &gt;&gt; Right. One 2 5 &gt;&gt; three. This strategy  can be further honed using the golden ratio, a visually pleasing ratio that can be found in nature and which artists  use to create focal points in their images. This shot from Barry London uses  the golden ratio to direct our attention to Barry's son. The positioning of the other characters  in the frame helps augment the ratio. As Barry Lynon shows us, locking is a powerful tool in directing an audience's  eye. If all your characters are looking at one person in a frame, the audience's  attention will go there as well. Akira Kurasawi uses this method to shift a viewer's attention  in the same shot. In this frame, from high and low, we're focused on one character and then another simply because the characters on the screen are changing their ey lines. Another simple blocking technique is to have the subject of attention closer to the camera than everything else. This shot from Twin Peaks does the opposite. Diane may be the farthest away, but our focus is on her because everyone else's back is to the camera and she is catching the most light. &gt;&gt; I'm sorry, ma'am. You can't smoke here. &gt;&gt; It's aing morg. &gt;&gt; Speaking of focus, a camera's depth of field can be a quick way to direct attention. In this shot from Man on Fire, Crey's head takes up most of the frame,  but our attention is on Lisa because she is in focus.  A wreck focus, meanwhile, can shift our attention. We're focused on the sheriff and then we're focused on what he's looking at. You can get even more creative and use a tilt shift, pushing other elements out of focus, even if they're the same distance from the camera. Of course, a frame can move as well. A director can hone our attention by simply pushing toward a subject or zooming in on them. This is a favorite method of Robert Alman,  who often uses zooms to introduce a space and then hone in on a single person within it. A camera move can redirect our attention as well. &gt;&gt; Man, I didn't have a very good session today. In  this long take from the sixth sense, our focus is initially on Malcolm since he's the one facing the camera. But as the camera dollies and pans, our eyes move to  Annie. Attention can also be directed with the help of production design. A simple way to lead an audience's eye with production design is with color. In a sea of teal, yellow stands out. In a sea of gray, red  stands out. The color of a subject's costume is a great way to draw an audience's attention. Gabrielle's red coat pops in her desaturated surroundings in 35 shots of rum, while Sharon Tate's yellow outfit and Once Upon a Time in Hollywood separates her from an otherwise colorful crowd. &gt;&gt; Well, one thing's for sure. Yeah. &gt;&gt; What's that? &gt;&gt; Sharon absolutely has a type. &gt;&gt; Cute, short, talented guys who look like 12-year-old boys. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I never stood a chance. &gt;&gt; Leading lines are also a powerful tool, guiding an audience's eye to a specific point in a frame. In this shot from High Noon, the three villains placement at the vertices of the town's buildings and mountains in the background makes them the center of attention. In this shot from kinds of kindness, the corners of the building along with the windows of the building out the window draw our focus to the subject. The tiles of the bathroom in this scene and decision to leave  serve a similar purpose. Smart production design can create frames within frames that direct an audience's attention. like this shot in the American friend or this shot in Noseratu which also uses leading lines created by the light from the window panes. The frame within a frame in this shot from AI  serves multiple purposes. It directs our attention to David while also separating him from his parents, alluding to the rift  growing between them. Lighting can also direct an audience's attention. A general rule of thumb is that the most brightly lit subject in a frame will draw the audience's eye. In this shot from the parallax view, our eye goes to Freddy even though he is farther from the camera. This is because light is hitting the side of  his face whereas the other character is in shadow. This can also be done with natural light.  In this shot from Janet Planet, the sun is creating the strongest highlights on the characters at the table. A practical light can also direct attention. The two characters in this frame from seconds congregate by a lamp. It may not be lighting the characters themselves for the camera, but it creates luminance in their general area that draws our eye. The  more directional light is, the more it can hone our attention. This diffused overhead and conclave  draws our focus to the group of cardinals, but doesn't highlight any of them in particular. Here the lighting is more about focusing the audience on the mood of the scene that this conversation is shrouded in secrecy. The light in this shot from still life is much harsher  and there is no doubt about where our attention should be. A light's color can also make a subject stand out. In this shot from Mississippi Masala, Demetrius is bathed in a yellow light, making him pop against the green lit background. A similar strategy is used here in All of Us Strangers, where the subject's red lighting contrasts with the blue sky. Sometimes an absence of light can also catch an audience's eye. Silhouettes, for example, can call attention to themselves when they're placed against a bright background. In weapons, the darkness in the doorway to Alex's house draws our attention because we are intrigued by the mystery of what's inside. Directing attention can also extend beyond the visual and into sound. Using sound design, a filmmaker can draw attention to a subject by simply making them the loudest. &gt;&gt; Robert Alman is known for his use of overlapping dialogue and he directs attention to specific pieces of conversation by bringing them forward in the mix. Our focus then is always shifting from character to character in his crowd scenes. &gt;&gt; Look at those flowers. &gt;&gt; No faster than I did. Yes. &gt;&gt; My niece here. Pick them. &gt;&gt; I can't get a shot. &gt;&gt; In this sequence from the Hurt Locker,  Katherine Bigalow chooses to have the breathing of the soldier be nearly as loud as the explosion. This hones our attention in on the diffuser and emphasizes when the breathing stops. &gt;&gt; To more overtly direct an audience's attention, a filmmaker can strip back any sounds from elements that aren't the subject.  In this scene from All That Jazz, we can only hear specific details. But perhaps more importantly, we can't hear the other characters. This puts us inside Joe's head and doesn't let us get distracted by what's being said. &gt;&gt; On the other end of the spectrum, sound can also deliberately unfocus an audience. &gt;&gt; A thing in my car. I can't find it, but I can get it and give it to you later. In this scene from Punch Drunk Love, conversations, music, and sound effects overwhelm us, scrambling our attention to create the feeling of chaos and stress. &gt;&gt; And to see you again, and and thanks for helping. &gt;&gt; What is that piano? What is this pudding? &gt;&gt; Why are they here? &gt;&gt; Sound design as well as music can direct our attention to elements that are not in frame. In the famous climax of the Blair Witch Project, we can hear the screams and yelling of characters before we can see anything upstairs. &gt;&gt; I hear him. I hear him. I hear you, Josh. &gt;&gt; This builds tension and also gives focus to the unfocused footage. In zone of interest, meanwhile, distant gunshots and yelling haunt seemingly innocuous frames, drawing our attention to the horrors happening just next door. &gt;&gt; In Jaws, hearing the sharks theme immediately puts the audience on edge, shifting our focus from whatever's in the frame to the danger lurking just outside it. Directors will often use framing, production design, and lighting  in conjunction to direct an audience's eye. So, in the end, directing  attention comes down to collaboration. To get the audience to focus on a specific element, first you need the whole crew to know where to look. Ready to start directing attention in your own scenes? Plan your shots with StudioBinder pre-production software, which includes apps for shot listing and storyboarding. Until next time, keep your eyes peeled. &gt;&gt; 