 Stanley Cubri's longtime assistant, Anthony Freewin, once said, "When I started working for Stanley in September 1965, he told me that I couldn't really understand what cinema was capable of without seeing the battle of Alers." What makes this relatively lowbudget docu style film so powerful? And why does some of the most celebrated directors of all time keep returning to it for inspiration? &gt;&gt; Beautiful. &gt;&gt; This is your favorite filmmaker's favorite film, The Battle  of Alers. The battle of Alers is a 1966 Italian Algerian film directed by Italian  filmmaker Gilo Ponte Cororvo. It was written by Franco Selenus along with Ponte Corvo based on a book by Sadi Yasv who also acted in the film.  and &gt;&gt; the movie depicts the lives of guerilla fighters during the Algerian War of Independence and was released just 4 years after the conclusion of the war. Ponte Corvo used many non-acctors, many of whom actually fought in the war. The result is a film with a rawness and intensity that affects audiences to this day. Name a filmmaker and  there's a good chance they've cited it as an inspiration. Verer Herzog made it required viewing in film courses  he taught. Paul Thomas Anderson noted, "It's always a good idea to watch the battle of Alers again, just as a cinematic exercise to get you excited." According to Freewin,  Stanley Cubri talked about the movie up until his death. Steven Solderberg admits &gt;&gt; Battle of Alers was a movie that I stole stuff and made it ours. And that to me is just, you know, you're standing on the shoulders of people who came before you. And that's just part of the process. I wasn't  embarrassed about it or secretive about it. Part of what makes Battle of Alers so affecting is that it is simultaneously hypersp specific to the Algerian experience while also being representative of a larger common struggle. Roger Eert noted it is about the Algerian war but those not interested in Algeria may substitute another war. The Battle of Alers has a universal frame of reference. Oliver Stone explains &gt;&gt; to make the history live is great. You can take what is a divided collective memory and try to make something dramatic.  &gt;&gt; But perhaps what stands out most is the film's  deep commitment to realism. Ponte Corvo came from the Italian neo realalist tradition, heavily influenced by the works of Roberto Roselini. Pontto Corvo and cinematographer Marello Gotti wanted to emulate the visuals of a news reel. Shooting in black and white and often times handheld, the film's gritty black and white cinematography paired with its use of real locations  and practical effects resulted in sequences which felt so real. The American cut of the film included a disclaimer that no news reel footage was used. Alfonso Corron notes, "The amazing thing about the Battle of Alers is the social reconstruction. It's meticulous and the sense of reality is so unique. I remember the first time I saw it, I swore they were lying when  they said that everything was fictional." Cubri felt similarly remarking all films are in a sense false documentaries. One tries to approach reality as much as possible only it's not reality. There are people who do very clever things which have completely fascinated and fooled me. For example, the battle of Alers. Spike Lee elaborates. It seemed  like somebody in a handheld Eton or aclair who was just 60 mm just right in the middle  of the stuff shooting at the end of the film where they show the the various uprises. I still don't I mean all that stuff is staged  but I don't know how they did that. &gt;&gt; The realism is not without a purpose. Mirinaire explains &gt;&gt; he doesn't make anything feel precious and because nothing is treated preciously. It's actually completely captures the fire of the moment. The realism helps add depth to the characters the film follows. Christopher Nolan argues the movie forces empathy with its characters in the  least theatrical manner imaginable. We care about the people in the film simply because we feel immersed in their reality and the odds they face. Solderberg notes, &gt;&gt; Ponttooro is so good in this film  at sort of sketching people. Even the people that appear on screen for a couple of minutes really make an impression. &gt;&gt; Of course, this is also in large part because of the strength of the performances in the film. Film scholar Peter Matthews writes that for the battle of Alers, neo realalism with its democratic ideal of placing non-acctors in their vernacular setting was the indispensable compass. Saudi Yasf and Sami Kbash were both active in the FLN, the Algerian rebel group during the war and Ponte Corvo credited their stories as heavily influencing the film. Even the one trained actor in the film, Jean Martin, who plays the French colonel, came from a military background and was chosen by Ponte Corvo because he had a theater background and  so wouldn't be recognized as an actor. The film centers around the performance of Brahim Hagyag who plays the famed militant Ali La Point. &gt;&gt; Hagyag's work has gone down as one of the greatest debut performances  of all time. Nyer explains the power of his acting. He is so in control over his environment. His centeredness and his innate confidence and his quietness and his the power that amplified  itself because of his quietness is stunning. The film's intensity is further heightened by its score devised by legendary composer Anio Morakoni along with Ponte Corvo. The soundtrack works in concert with the sounds of war and protest, interwoven with gunfire, helicopters, and the distinctive yelling of the Algerian militants. Matthews writes, "Anyomoricone score isn't the symphonic flattening by which Hollywood  dependably celebrates momentous occasions. Its themes, percussive and elogiic, appear sparingly, but with a ritual inevitability that suggests hidden antithetical forces sweeping the characters along  or as Han Zimmer puts it, &gt;&gt; battle of hugely influential film, Enya Maric's first score, but that's sort of beside the point because the film is so incredibly good. It's an extraordinary film. &gt;&gt;  &gt;&gt; Even Quenton Tarantino paid homage to Moricon's score in In Glorious Bastards. Sergeant Hugo Stiglets  don't rain. These are the bastards. Ever heard of us? Even nearly 60 years later, the Battle of Alers feels as timely and riveting as at the time it was released. The film is a testament to the power of realism, shooting real people in real locations to immerse an audience in a real story. Are you yet another filmmaker inspired by Battle of Alirus? Get started on your own movie with Studio Binder's pre-production services, including everything from scheduling to storyboarding software. That's all for now. Don't give up, no matter how insurmountable the odds might feel.