Julia, why don't you tell your sister that she's a dilitant? She's never going to learn to play this harp. In 1995, a small group of filmmakers attempted to change how movies were made. They were combative and controversial, and their success was questionable. But their impact can still be felt today. Who were they and what were their demands? This is what is Dogma 95. Before we party like it's the 1990s, be sure to subscribe to StudioBinder and enable notifications to check out all our new videos. Time to get their bones. Dogma 95 was a cinematic movement founded by Danish filmmakers Lars vontrier and Thomas Vintterberg. It was created largely in response to the blockbuster film making that had reached its zenith in the '90s as well as the burgeoning digital technology that was rapidly democratizing cinema. The goal was to strip back the artifice of filmm and depict reality in the starkkest terms. Critic John Roberts wrote, "Dogma 95's edicts emphasize the paralysis and decadence of commercial cinema in terms of its corrupting illusionism, trickery, and sentimentality." Vontrier and Venterberg borrowed heavily from Francois Trufo's essay, a certain tendency in French cinema. considered a founding document of the French New Wave. They were also influenced by the National Film School of Denmark, which many of the movement's filmmakers attended, and where strict budget limitations were placed on students projects. The Dogma 95 manifesto was a dramatic call to arms containing a list of strict rules called the vow of chastity. The movement was officially announced on March 13th, 1995 at a conference celebrating a century of filmm with Lars von Trier throwing red pamphlets outlining the doctrine into the audience. Soon after, Danish filmmakers Christian Levering and Sarin Craig Jacobson joined the movement and the four formed what was dubbed the Dogma Brethren or the Dogma 95 collective. The movement was short-lived. Most of its members began breaking the manifesto strict rules almost immediately and only 35 films received certificates of authenticity when in 2005 Dogma 95 was declared dead. And yet the influence of the movement has proven to be massive. To understand why, let's take a closer look at the vow of chastity. Von Trier and Vinterberg wrote out 10 rules that a film had to follow in order to be truly considered dogma 95. The vow of chastity outlined a clear philosophy that called for a radical approach to film making and its aesthetics. Rule number one, shooting must be done on location. Props and sets must not be brought in. If a particular prop is necessary for the story, a location must be chosen where this prop is to be found. &gt;&gt; Rule number two, the sound must never be produced apart from the images or vice versa. Music must not be used unless it occurs where the scene is being shot. In other words, all sound has to be diagetic. &gt;&gt; Rule number three, the camera must be handheld. Any movement or inmobility attainable in the hand is permitted. Am I hyper sensitive? &gt;&gt; Rule number four, the film must be in color. Special lighting is not acceptable. If there is too little light for exposure, the scene must be cut or a single lamp be attached to the camera. By special lighting, Vontrier and Venderberg meant any sort of film light. Rule number five, optical work and filters are forbidden. Rule number six, the film must not contain superficial action. Murders, weapons, etc. must not occur. Rule number seven, temporal and geographical alienation are forbidden. That is to say that the film takes place here and now. Rule number eight, genre movies are not acceptable. Rule number nine, the film format must be Academy 35 mm. Dogma directors often shot in a variety of formats, but official Dogma movies had to be transferred to 35 mm. What was most important was shooting at the same ratio. Rule number 10, the director must not be credited. Very few films followed all 10 of these rules. Even films with dogma certificates broke some of the tenets. Harmony Karine's Julian Donkey Boy, for example, used a fake stomach to make a character appear pregnant, while Vontrier used non-diagetic music in The Idiots. Nevertheless, these rules resulted in raw visuals that aim to present life as it is, and they also had a deep effect on Dogma 95's narratives and themes. Dogma 95 was not just a rejection of how big budget movies were made. It was also a rejection of what they were about. For the Dogma directors, steering away from spectacle encouraged a focus on realism. As Von Trier and Vintterberg wrote in the Bow of Chastity, "My supreme goal is to force the truth out of my characters and settings." Dogma filmmakers largely disliked high concept stories that could be summed up in a single catchy log line and that were so prized by Hollywood. Vontrier and Ventterberg complained in their manifesto. Predictability has become the golden calf around which we dance. Having the characters inner lives justify the plot is too complicated and not high art. As never before, the superficial action and the superficial movie are receiving all the praise. As such, dogma films were often extremely character-driven, letting complex people drive the story. This is not to say that dogma movies were understated character dramas. Most Dogma films, in fact, were deliberately provocative, diving into taboos that would typically be avoided in mainstream cinema. As a result, dogma movies became known for eliciting discomfort in the audience and being emotionally demanding, though there were exceptions to the rule. But while the Dogma Collective made much hay from their distaste for mainstream filmm, they didn't completely diverge from storytelling conventions. In contrast with the French New Wave, where filmmakers often created nonlinear and avancgard narratives, most Dogma films maintained a linear structure. &gt;&gt; Dogma 95's production methods and its subject matter have had a massive influence on filmmakers. &gt;&gt; Hello, baby. Hi. &gt;&gt; Looking at Dogma 95's rules, it may seem like the movement was backwards looking, yearning for simpler methods of movie making. And while this may be partially true, part of Dogma's lasting impact was its precience. As Vinterberg himself notes, I think Dogma sort of started a digital movement. Dogma 95 was on the cutting edge of the disruption digital film making was about to cause and its filmmakers were on the forefront of digital cinematography. The movement's no movie lighting rule, for example, would only be possible with the low light capabilities of digital cameras. Above all else, Dogma showed that serious quality movies could be made more cheaply than ever before. This ethos was infectious and the dogma movement spread far beyond Denmark. Even established filmmakers saw the freedom that the digital age could afford them. Directors like Agnes Varda, Michael Man, Jeanluke Godard, and David Lynch all experimented with lower budget digital film making. But of course, the dogma philosophy was the most inspiring for filmmakers who were just starting out. Dogma showed that you didn't need to wait for a studio to give you money. You could go out and shoot an entire feature on your own. One of the most direct descendants of Dogma was Mumblecore, the American independent movement that came to prominence in the early as Mumblecore may have been less confrontational and shocking than Dogma, but it emphasized realism and the everyday lives of ordinary people. Something bit me. I pissed something bit me. Other movements like New French Extremity took inspiration from Dogma's discomforting and taboo subject matter. &gt;&gt; Today, the aesthetics of Dogma 95 are far from shocking and have worked their way into the show business establishment. &gt;&gt; Excuse me. &gt;&gt; To some, that means it's time for another shakeup. At 2025's CAN, a new brigade of Danish filmmakers announced Dogma 25 with updated rules such as no internet during the creative process, half of the film must be without dialogue, and the script must be handwritten by the director. Dogma 95 burnt bright and fast and was as controversial as it was celebrated. But whether you like the Dogma movies or not, their core lesson remains potent. Anyone can make a movie. They just need something to say. &gt;&gt; Acting normal for a second and take it seriously. &gt;&gt; Feeling inspired? Get started on your own indie feature with Studio Binder pre-production services which include software for storyboards and shot listing. &gt;&gt; That's all for now. Go make your own rules. Keep your heart in you. The glor is