When one battle after another was announced, many cinnaphiles had the same question on their mind. &gt;&gt; You know, I can get a gun. &gt;&gt; What will a Paul Thomas Anderson action movie look like? &gt;&gt; The answer, very good. Let's take a look at how PTA approached action by examining the  most jaw-dropping action sequence in his most ambitious project to date. This is the best scene  in one battle after another. We will be going in depth on the climax of one battle after another. So, if you haven't watched the film yet, this is your spoiler warning. Green Acres, Fairvilleies, and Hornville Junction. &gt;&gt; One battle after another is a movie of epic proportions, spanning decades and following a whole host of characters in a wide range of locations. &gt;&gt; All right, let's go to work. &gt;&gt; Much of the film is in essence an extended chase sequence. Bob Ferguson is chasing after his daughter,  and so is a vindictive soldier and an ominous cabal. &gt;&gt; Merry Christmas. Hail  Saint Nick. &gt;&gt; Merry Christmas. &gt;&gt; There are several stunning setpieces along the way. But Anderson saves the best for last  with a climactic car chase unlike any other. Car chases are typically hectic with lots of cutting, coverage, and obstacles. In contrast, the final chase feels almost hypnotic. How is this unique tone built? And why does it work so well? What immediately sets  it apart is its location. The sequence was shot in the Texas Dip, a stretch of road an hour east of Berago Springs in Southern California that the crew dubbed the River of Hills. The road was discovered after an extensive location scout. PTA describes the process. It was like a gift from the movie Gods or something. After years of driving and looking for something, anything, it had just emerged to us and we just ran with it. He confirmed the effectiveness of the location by simply filming on his phone. He explains, "If you put your phone on the dashboard of your car, you realize just how scary that point of view becomes. You're driving 85 mph and you can't see what's over that hill, nor can you see what's behind you for most of the time." Indeed, the setting becomes a crucial element of the entire sequence, dictating who can see who at any given time, and therefore adding tension and suspense. With all that expansive space, Willer has no place to hide. The equipment they shot on adds to the hypnotic,  tense feeling. One battle after another was captured using Vista Vision, a highresolution film format that was most popular in the 1950s. These large cameras required additional considerations for the high octane shots Anderson desired for the chase. He notes the Vista Vision cameras do require special pieces of equipment because of the way that they're backloaded and the way that the magazine runs through the film. So, there was some special gear. The massive frame afforded by the retro cameras makes the sequence all the more immersive, forcing the audience to feel like they are on a roller coaster ride. Where these cameras are placed is equally important. PTA gets coverage where the camera is extremely low to the ground, making the drive feel even more kinetic with the asphalt flying by taking up a large portion of the frame and further limiting what characters can see. This required an elevator  rig, which could raise and lower the camera as needed. This simple low-angle choice creates energy and a sense of movement without requiring quick cutting. &gt;&gt;  &gt;&gt; The coverage of the scene uses both wide and telephoto lenses. Wider lenses help the drops in the hills feel more visceral, while telephoto lenses compress the depth of the frame, making the hills feel right on top of one another. The choreography of the sequence is incredibly specific. When cars enter and exit frames define the momentum  of the chase and elevate the level of tension. Take this shot for example where both Tim and Will's cars crest different hills at the same time and then as Willow's car leaves the frame, Bob's car enters. As PTA explains, the choreography of the scene was so precise. We tried our hardest to choreograph when the camera would rise over a hill and see Willis's car go down, then see the middle car rise up. His choreography is punctuated by Johnny Greenwood's singular score with layers of percussion, all playing slightly different rhythms, giving a sense of chaotic propulsion to the sequence. Menacing strings are introduced when we first see Willa's pursuer. When the threat is apparently gone, the score drops in complexity, only to jump right back in.  &gt;&gt;  &gt;&gt; This works in concert with the sound design which forefronts the sounds of the car engines. Engine revs are absent when the tension is minimal and at when it is meant to be heightened, like when Willer sees Tim's car. By the end of the sequence, it is all engines revving, ratcheting up the urgency enveloping the characters. The scene's lighting too is distinctive, relying largely on harsh natural light to both create dramatic shadows fitting for the mood of the film and to further emphasize the character's limited visibility. Cinematographer Michael Bowman borrowed this approach from one of Anderson's most prominent references for the film. He was constantly talking about like the rawness of the French connection. And you look at so many of those scenes and obviously, you know, they made that movie for like two bucks. Yes. Faces can go dark. Yeah. We're going to go overexposed. &gt;&gt; This made the setup for lighting relatively simple. &gt;&gt; We're doing these driving shots. We'll put their car on a biscuit and drive around. But you just some would go in, some would go out. We're just managing exposures and embracing what's happening. Normally sometimes you do guitar work with major talents, you're going to okay, let's soften this. Let's bring this. Let's shape the light in a more pleasing manner. And this was about  embracing those raw things. The visual rawness makes the sequence feel immediate and realist. This isn't being shot on a green screen. In fact, they decided to loosen the screws on the camera mount to allow more visible shake to the shots. The editing of the sequence is equally masterful, both building tension while also maintaining clarity about who is where. Editor Andy Jurgensson decided not to be on set during the chase scene so that he could approach it with fresh eyes. The sequence ended up being one of the most difficult to put together. As Jurgensson explains, "We always knew the final action would take place in the Texas dip, so we had a vague idea how it would all turn out, but that sequence was definitely created in the editing room. The many moving pieces within the scene made it even trickier." Jurgensson notes, "It was difficult because we had all these different perspectives in front of Will's car and behind Will's car. in front of Tim Smith's car, behind his car, and once Bob gets in the picture, we're behind him with the two cars in front seen from his point of view. I built assemblies in the best shots from each of those different angles. The edit seamlessly shifts between the three perspectives of Tim, Willer, and Bob, and uses the hills to create a sense of hypnotic disorientation. The beauty of the River of Hill sequence and of one battle after another as a whole is PTA's ability  to combine improvisation with extensive planning. Letting the rawness come through but having a clear vision to guide every shot. Feeling inspired? Before you buy yourself a Vista Vision camera, plan out your shoot with Studio Binder  storyboarding, shot listing, and scheduling softwares. Until next time, embrace the highs and ride out the lows. &gt;&gt; Ocean waves. Ocean waves. &gt;&gt; I got to ditch you, Kimosabi. And then I hit it on foot. &gt;&gt; On foot? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Here we go. I'm going to turn up this gas station. I'm going to slow down and we talk and roll. I'll take it from there.