 I don't feel  as innately talented as a lot of other people, but what I can do and what I have done  is is to work hard. Few filmmakers are as chameleonic and industrious as Steven Soderberg. But within his massive and diverse filmography, there are techniques and  lessons he has taken with him throughout his career. My father loved movies. That's where I got the bug from. He was just a complete cinema junkie. And so I saw a lot of films when I was young and happened when I was 13 years old to get access to some film equipment. And it didn't it just didn't seem like a choice. It felt like of course I want to do this. So  I don't know how to describe my motivation. I didn't I didn't feel like I I made a decision. &gt;&gt; Go and action. &gt;&gt; Although Soderberg doesn't consider himself a writer, he knows a good script and it's what got himself  into the industry to begin with. &gt;&gt; Nobody can keep me from writing. I have written,  but I don't consider myself a writer by my definition. There are real writers and I'm somebody  who wrote and has written. That's different. But at that point in  my career, I would write one thing, finish it, start another one. I was trying out very different genres  to see like what, if any, I had a facility for, but I just felt like that's how you get in.  You write a script that somebody goes, I like that script. &gt;&gt; For Sodabberg, a solid screenplay makes everything else easier. All I have to do is make sure the camera is in the  right place to capture what is there. Like I don't have to manufacture it. It's just there. And so  my job is make sure people see what I'm seeing. &gt;&gt; You got you some juice. &gt;&gt; Oh my god. &gt;&gt; Was that I'll grab a towel? &gt;&gt; Yeah. How we feeling tonight, ladies? Come on. Equally important is casting. &gt;&gt; Casting  mistakes are fatal. There are a lot of other compromises you can make on a movie that you  look at and go, "H, wow. I I wish I'd not agreed to that." But if  it's casting, that's to me it's binary. It's either the right person or it's not. &gt;&gt; Sweetie, there is no fixing it. And so talking to  a young filmmaker and talking about not compromising, that's literally the only area where I go. You can't compromise  on casting because those mistakes can't be undone. It's the number one thing the audience is attaching to.  You can get a lot of stuff wrong. If you've cast the movie perfectly, you're probably going to be okay. You can get the wardrobe wrong. It can look. He can have a bad score, but if you've  cast it perfectly, you've got a good shot. &gt;&gt; You really rub this in. &gt;&gt; Appropo that on out of  sight again. I desperately need this job. And I said, if it's not Jennifer Lopez, I can't do this.  I engaged with every potential actress that could play that part. And there were a lot of people capable of playing that part. I just felt her with George in an Elmore Leonard movie. I felt the movie was at stake. And I  said to Casey Silver, "If it's not her, I can't do this." And he was like, "Whoa, &gt;&gt; you win, Jack." &gt;&gt; Soderberg's wide-ranging filmography can be split into two categories, the captured and the staged. The reference point is, oh, Battle of Alers and The French Connection. I just watched those two movies in a loop while I was preparing and making that film. That's it's the difference between staging and capture. Traffic is a movie in which you want to feel like you've captured it. Oceans 11 is a movie in which you want to feel like it was staged. and  this very elaborate thing suddenly ends up in this shot and it's just so and it's all choreographed. That's the pleasure of that. But  the pleasure of something like traffic is feeling this whole thing is out of control and and when I see something it's  like snatched. It's it's not staged. And I like both of those. So  it just depends on what the the script is. And when it comes to capturing, Soderberg likes to be the  one to do it. He is often the cinematographer on his films. &gt;&gt; What I  was discovering through the films prior to Traffic was I like things to  look a certain way. There are certain photographic principles that I'm sort of attached to and I didn't have control of the  set and it was making me crazy. I decided that  the tradeoff of me not being Chebo  or any of the people that I considered to be at the top of this field.  I'm not that. But I'm willing to trade that for  the momentum and the feeling that I get by having that responsibility. So to me it's worth  it to make that trade. And I worked with very good cinematographers and I drove  them crazy and they were all very kind to me. &gt;&gt; But Soderberg also knows when to delegate. &gt;&gt; I try to tell young filmmakers how important it is to have really, really good  producers. Don't fall into this trap of I can do everything myself. You need really good producers. You really do. &gt;&gt; Good producers allow set to use momentum. &gt;&gt; We start blocking and as soon as I see something start to emerge, we start shooting. &gt;&gt; Sometimes I see the whole thing, but if I've seen enough to get four or five shots in, I'm like, let's go. Let's just start. Cuz I know once I get to shot four or five, now I know what 6 through 10 is. So for the actors, they never leave. If it's a 10-hour day, they're shooting for eight and a half. So, they  never have to do that thing of decelerating and then I have to like fluff them to get them up again. They're just there and they're in it and they stay. What I found is this  process, they like being around it. So, even if they're not in the shot, they just stay there to watch what's happening with the other cast members.  That momentum and that feeling to me translate. I am being held here against my will. Please send help. &gt;&gt; Perhaps above all else, Soderberg's career is a testament to forcing yourself out of your creative comfort zone. &gt;&gt; At the end of the day, it's my job to adapt. I got to figure it out. &gt;&gt; What you don't  want to do is just keep doing the same thing over and over that doesn't seem to work. in the aftermath of Black Bag. I have to look at that. I mean, that's a sexy cast and the movie's 95 minutes long. It got good press. All of them did everything that we asked in terms of promoting the movie. I'd be stupid if I came out the other end of that and went, I'm going to do exactly that same thing again. &gt;&gt; It was right. It was brave. And it was noble. I've got to figure out, well, how do I find something that I'm in love with that has the potential to reach a broader audience than what I've been doing. All I can do is just keep looking and keep  thinking about that because you don't make these things to be seen in a closet. &gt;&gt; I  am incarcerated. You want people to see them and it's no fun for somebody to go like, "Oh, what have you been doing? Oh, I did this thing." And they're like, "Oh, did that come out? That's not fun." &gt;&gt; And so that's my job. It's like, "Okay, I got to find something. I can keep doing things like  presents that I just do completely on my own." And those are fun, but I don't want to just do that. &gt;&gt; Get the AWAY FROM HER.  It's fun to work on a big campus sometimes, you know what I mean? Um, and so I've just got to find something that or I'm looking for something that I feel has some scale and also has the potential, you know, to be seen by a lot of people. And and it's tricky that ven diagram of what I like and what  could work. What I love about cinema specifically is that you never do stop learning. &gt;&gt; Ready to challenge yourself? Get your own movie started with Studio Binder storyboarding, shot listing, and scheduling softwares. Until next time, keep working.  Heat.